Caption: uh and today I want to talk about well
Caption: I'm calling it secrets of the credential
Caption: management apis now has anybody heard of
Caption: the credential management apis before
Caption: that's one two three okay so that's
Caption: actually that's five is more than
Caption: normally put it up for those of but for
Caption: the rest of you uh I I guess it's not so
Caption: much secrets of these apis but the apis
Caption: have been sort of kept a secret from you
Caption: uh a little bit uh and um and we'll
Caption: we'll dig into a bit of that uh soon now
Caption: I also realized this is a 20 minute talk
Caption: I might talk a little fast because uh
Caption: the last time I gave this this was about
Caption: half an hour so let's crack on with it
Caption: uh my name is philanash I am a developer
Caption: advantages at a company called twilio if
Caption: you want to learn about twilio or talk
Caption: to me again later I have a booth on the
Caption: other side there uh opposite the coffee
Caption: stand so come say hi to me there or
Caption: catch me online I am Phil Nash all over
Caption: the Internet uh Twitter LinkedIn
Caption: whatever or hit me up on email
Caption: filmyashatoyo.com
Caption: um I have a question already yeah
Caption: I love it right
Caption: uh I will pay anything to have my domain
Caption: name like that also some film Nash has
Caption: got filmnash.com and is holding on to it
Caption: and doing nothing with it anymore so but
Caption: this is better this is better
Caption: um cool so what I want to kind of talk
Caption: about is like better authentication
Caption: experiences I have this concern that uh
Caption: when we build applications on the web uh
Caption: that uh the important and interesting
Caption: things that we work on are you know
Caption: um the applications are actually
Caption: building that that thing beyond the
Caption: login experience the thing that users
Caption: actually want to get to and that login
Caption: tends to be
Caption: um a friction the thing that goes in the
Caption: way of of people getting to do the stuff
Caption: uh that they actually uh care about uh
Caption: and I want to improve that because
Caption: so I was looking at some data a while
Caption: back and um this 24 number comes from a
Caption: survey that Google did at the end of
Caption: 2018 uh about kind of security uh things
Caption: that users do and 24 was the number of
Caption: people who use a password manager uh
Caption: from that uh survey uh 24 not bad
Caption: actually pretty good number but that
Caption: still means three quarters of people are
Caption: not using a password manager which sort
Caption: of is bad because because passwords
Caption: right in fact
Caption: um and and I do want to kind of prefix
Caption: this by the fact that you know we're
Caption: probably developers or power users of
Caption: computers and our laptops uh in our
Caption: daily work and we probably are amongst
Caption: those 24 that do use a password manager
Caption: or in fact have
Caption: um uh it worked on your own login
Caption: experience so that you don't have to
Caption: worry about that it's normally a click
Caption: you don't have to know your own password
Caption: but that's not the case for most people
Caption: and that's my point here
Caption: um
Caption: this uh awkward sort of uh flow diagram
Caption: kind of is is the experience of somebody
Caption: logging into a website right and it
Caption: starts at the top where you hit the
Caption: login page right there and immediately
Caption: you asked yourself do I know my username
Caption: um because that's not necessarily clear
Caption: now sometimes it's your email sometimes
Caption: it's something else and if you don't you
Caption: have to go through a nice little
Caption: username reflex um uh username reset
Caption: password flow uh if you've got past the
Caption: uh like username like if the answer to
Caption: this is yes and or indeed maybe uh
Caption: because you can never tell until you've
Caption: put it in and we get to do I know my
Caption: password and again that's the same
Caption: problem maybe you do maybe you don't if
Caption: you've got it in a pass Advantage you're
Caption: probably fine but if you are not if
Caption: you're a regular user if you're one of
Caption: the 74 of 76 of people not using one do
Caption: you know your password who knows maybe
Caption: you have to go through a reset flow if
Caption: you think you know both of those you can
Caption: enter them in and hope for the best at
Caption: which point you find out whether you
Caption: knew your email address sorry your
Caption: username and password and either go back
Caption: to the start and maybe go through one of
Caption: the reset flows again or you get on and
Caption: maybe hit a two-fact authentication
Caption: challenge because it's a secure site and
Caption: uh and then a text message is sent to
Caption: your phone your phone another room you
Caption: give up you close the computer you throw
Caption: it out the window
Caption: that's that's a sort of regular user
Caption: flow of logging into a website
Caption: um
Caption: that's the two-factor then you get your
Caption: message right yeah sure the user
Caption: experience of this uh ends up being
Caption: um I I have a scale of like zero to poop
Caption: emoji on this and it's just poop emoji
Caption: that's uh this is not a scientific scale
Caption: it's just how I like to think about
Caption: things
Caption: um it's bad user experience and we can
Caption: make it better
Caption: um because it's full of friction that's
Caption: what I'm kind of talking about it's full
Caption: of that like do I know my username do I
Caption: know my password am I right about either
Caption: of those uh and and how long does it
Caption: take to actually get to the thing we
Caption: wanted to do in the first place do we
Caption: want to buy the thing do we want to
Caption: carry on the service whatever so I'm
Caption: gonna run us through how we can do
Caption: usernames and passwords better real
Caption: quick I'm going to start with the HTML
Caption: um HTML can actually help us an awful
Caption: lot in this place it makes the form more
Caption: accessible it makes the experience
Caption: better and quicker
Caption: um and so this is what a login form
Caption: might look like right we've got a fairly
Caption: straightforward form it's got two inputs
Caption: uh uh
Caption: a text input for our username a password
Caption: input from our password the labels point
Caption: to the right things it's fine it's quite
Caption: good but there's more we can do to it
Caption: than this the input element itself is
Caption: one of my favorite elements in HTML
Caption: possibly my favorite because
Caption: um because of how much uh scope it has
Caption: the the amount of things you can do with
Caption: a single attribute that changes the
Caption: behavior of an input element is
Caption: incredible
Caption: um the attributes available to us some
Caption: are less used than others and the ones I
Caption: want to kind of call out here well
Caption: firstly uh the type you might be able to
Caption: change an input a month to a checkbox or
Caption: a radio button or something but in this
Caption: particular case if my form was if my
Caption: username was in fact an email address as
Caption: well then we probably should change that
Caption: type to an email that's going to help us
Caption: on a mobile device it's going to pop up
Caption: uh the keyboard which has an app symbol
Caption: like prominently on it which is useful
Caption: and helps people out and then we've got
Caption: autocomplete autocomplete is going to
Caption: feature quite a bit in this because it's
Caption: the greatest attribute the input element
Caption: has uh in this case uh autocomplete
Caption: username and autocomplete current
Caption: password allow us to give hints to the
Caption: browser and indeed to any other
Caption: technology like a password manager that
Caption: might want to auto fill these things in
Caption: for you
Caption: um
Caption: username is really useful there is also
Caption: order complete email but that's really
Caption: for when you're um dealing with
Caption: somebody's actual contact details not
Caption: the thing you're using to log into a
Caption: thing
Caption: um current password is really cool uh
Caption: because there's also a new password
Caption: autocomplete uh that's particularly
Caption: useful for your page where you're
Caption: changing your password and you have
Caption: three different password inputs on the
Caption: same page one's for the old password and
Caption: two are for repeating the new password
Caption: um but without new password and current
Caption: password uh browsers or
Caption: password managers will auto fill the
Caption: same thing into all three but if you
Caption: have new password and current password
Caption: then they'll be able to offer
Caption: suggestions to the new password and the
Caption: existing one to the current password
Caption: actually Firefox itself offers you a
Caption: secure suggestion if you have
Caption: autocomplete's new password on an input
Caption: really useful
Caption: um certificate about these order
Caption: complete look it up it's amazing I have
Caption: a little demo of just kind of my
Caption: existing login flow I've got a demo
Caption: application that we're going to deal
Caption: with for the rest of this app and all it
Caption: does is Log In which is annoying really
Caption: because the entire app is 100 friction
Caption: um but this
Caption: it's got nothing on the other side of it
Caption: it's amazing it's got a log out button
Caption: um but I just want to show you like this
Caption: is the existing experience right we we
Caption: go to log in we have to do all the
Caption: typing I happen to know my username and
Caption: password for this uh the password is
Caption: Secret
Caption: it's the most secure six character
Caption: password I can think of uh and I'm
Caption: logged in uh in fact I've got a two-fact
Caption: authentication message and there it is
Caption: over the other side
Caption: um
Caption: 843293 cool uh so I had to look at my
Caption: phone and then I come back over here and
Caption: oh my goodness it was yeah
Caption: are we logged in yet yes we're logged in
Caption: cool
Caption: um go away
Caption: I'll come back to that later
Caption: um so that's that's the sort of that's
Caption: our existing slow I have to type
Caption: everything in version so let's see what
Caption: else we can do um that had our
Caption: autocomplete attributes on it but
Caption: because I wasn't using any other
Caption: technology to auto complete things it
Caption: didn't show up to help
Caption: but this is where we get to credential
Caption: management and for the people who put
Caption: their uh hands up they know about this
Caption: is great
Caption: um credential Management apis in the
Caption: browsers allow us to store and then
Caption: retrieve our users credentials
Caption: um and so I was annoyingly clicking away
Caption: the browser pop-up there to say I would
Caption: like to would you like to save your
Caption: username and password in this uh but
Caption: that was just kind of the browser doing
Caption: on its own what we can actually hook
Caption: into is is triggering that and then
Caption: using it later because if we as a
Caption: developer as the website trigger that
Caption: app um that pop-up we're actually able
Caption: to retrieve the password from the
Caption: username and password from it later and
Caption: make a smoother login flow and I'll show
Caption: you how that works
Caption: um here's what the code looks like it's
Caption: actually fairly simple
Caption: uh we look for the password credential
Caption: to be in the window object and when we
Caption: have that we can create a password
Caption: credential using our user ID and
Caption: password so this is once we know uh that
Caption: the user ID and password is correct so
Caption: this could happen at registration or on
Caption: a successful login
Caption: and uh and once we create that
Caption: credential
Caption: um oh no I've got things there there we
Caption: go this line a weight Navigator
Caption: credentials store credential allows you
Caption: to then
Caption: store in the uh in the browser's
Caption: credential management the browser's
Caption: password manager and the real power of
Caption: this is the next page where we get to
Caption: ask for it back again so when the user
Caption: comes to log in we can go and retrieve
Caption: those credentials we say navigator
Caption: credentials get uh password is true
Caption: we're asking for password in this case
Caption: and that pops up another
Caption: um permissions thing from the browser to
Caption: say uh do you want to log in with these
Caption: credentials uh and and if the user
Caption: approves that then they are through you
Caption: can write a function that says that pass
Caption: them through
Caption: you can actually do this silently as
Caption: well which is which is kind of cool I'm
Caption: not necessarily the biggest fan of it
Caption: but uh if um uh you can kind of do that
Caption: without the permissions dialogue and uh
Caption: and that will pass a user straight
Caption: through
Caption: um or you know get the credentials for
Caption: them and allow you to log them straight
Caption: in no friction whatsoever I think maybe
Caption: a little bit of friction is useful and
Caption: so but you can turn that on with
Caption: unmediated as true here
Caption: um but you can make sure that
Caption: permissions always pop up if say a user
Caption: has specifically logged out uh and so
Caption: when signing out if you call a navigator
Caption: credentials um prevent silent access uh
Caption: that's a good thing for you know a user
Caption: property sign out they don't want to be
Caption: automatically signed in again
Caption: um what does this look like I think it's
Caption: it's important to show kind of better
Caption: what this looks like so if I go and log
Caption: out I'm going to go back through my
Caption: process well one second I need to
Caption: check out the version of the code
Caption: that does this
Caption: credential management there you go
Caption: basically just uncommented a bunch of
Caption: stuff
Caption: um and now if I go and log in this time
Caption: around we're going to see that same
Caption: browser pop up uh to say hey do you want
Caption: to store your username and password but
Caption: this time I'm asking for that access
Caption: and I will be able to use it again later
Caption: so we're going to log in we know it's
Caption: successful login because we we've
Caption: succeeded I'm saving it I've got to go
Caption: to my two Factor authentication we'll
Caption: cover making that better in a second
Caption: seven
Caption: no three four three four
Caption: and submit that and then through now
Caption: this time I'm going to log out log back
Caption: in again and we see it work
Caption: what is it
Caption: friction exactly well it doesn't help if
Caption: I'm logging in and out a bunch of times
Caption: but uh it is that or I didn't do the
Caption: right typing
Caption: let's try it one more time
Caption: yeah all right cool I was right I just
Caption: typed it wrong so this time around I use
Caption: that credential management API and as I
Caption: got a successful login I stored the
Caption: thing in the browser uh so if I log out
Caption: again and then go to login it's going to
Caption: know it's me and suggest that in uh sign
Caption: in look at that do you want to sign into
Caption: this film I absolutely do sign in so
Caption: we've turned in this particular case our
Caption: sign-in process from having to remember
Caption: your username and password uh having to
Caption: type it all in into a single click a
Caption: single tap and we're through and I'm
Caption: very excited about that sadly obviously
Caption: we've got stuck at two Vector
Caption: authentication again
Caption: um
Caption: which hasn't even come through now oh
Caption: it's 941525 there we go I have a bank
Caption: that um
Caption: screams at me every time they send me a
Caption: text message with a code and be like
Caption: never tell anyone this and like it times
Caption: out in five minutes
Caption: I will tell people then
Caption: it's true you shouldn't obviously share
Caption: these things oh my God I'm gonna run out
Caption: of time brilliant so we've got logged in
Caption: let's go back I'm gonna run out of time
Caption: if I don't get through this uh so let's
Caption: talk about two facts authentication I
Caption: think it's super important because we
Caption: have these
Caption: um these names and passwords and people
Caption: who don't use password managers and
Caption: people who uh repeat themselves and use
Caption: the same Parcels all the time and the
Caption: whole thing is friction over and over
Caption: again right uh so password reuse this
Caption: was in the same survey that I mentioned
Caption: at the start uh the blue slice of the
Caption: pie there uh is people who reuse
Caption: passwords some of the time the yellow
Caption: slices people who reuse passwords all of
Caption: the time I love that the people
Caption: answering the survey were just like how
Caption: many passwords do I have just one I just
Caption: use it everywhere it's the greatest
Caption: password those are the people getting
Caption: hacked all of the time it was 13 of
Caption: people in this particular survey 52 said
Caption: some of the time uh 13 said all of the
Caption: time I reuse passwords and then this
Caption: nice little green slice of people who
Caption: say they never reuse password 35 of
Caption: people in the survey said they never
Caption: reuse passwords I'll remind you that 24
Caption: of people said that they use a password
Caption: manager so 11 of people have a
Caption: photographic memory or they're lying
Caption: and that's what I use this for you
Caption: um it's a bad experience and so uh and
Caption: and thus you know we also do um that
Caption: always comes up too tiny uh we uh the
Caption: problem about this is is our problem
Caption: we've put all these problematic password
Caption: things in the way of people uh your
Caption: password must contain at least eight
Caption: letters a capital a protagonist with
Caption: good character development a Twist and a
Caption: happy ending
Caption: if you can you'll never remember that
Caption: past or maybe you'll only ever remember
Caption: that password it's a great story
Caption: um but what this actually you know the
Caption: real the real things we do is say we
Caption: must have a capital letter uh some
Caption: lowercase letters a number and a special
Caption: character right and this is the perfect
Caption: password for that because it does
Caption: everything it's got eight characters
Caption: it's got ten characters in it look at
Caption: that enormously long password
Caption: but this gives um attackers uh an easy
Caption: way to um patternize things it's a
Caption: dictionary word which starts with a
Caption: capital letter ends with the number one
Caption: because why would you think Beyond one
Caption: and uses the exclamation point because
Caption: it's a special character but it uses the
Caption: same key as number one you don't even
Caption: have to move your finger when you're
Caption: typing it in
Caption: um and so when you have patterns like
Caption: this it makes it easier to Brute Force
Caption: attack this kind of thing and that's a
Caption: bad thing and then on the other hand uh
Caption: there are sites leaking our data all out
Caption: over the place
Caption: um and and if you don't know how I've
Caption: beenporn.com uh that's that gathers
Caption: those uh leaks those breaches and shares
Caption: just tell you whether your password has
Caption: been part of that and yes it has
Caption: um
Caption: so either other people are leaking out
Caption: passwords or users are using the same
Caption: password or they're using an easily
Caption: broken password and so that's why we
Caption: have two-factor authentication so we can
Caption: have one extra Factor one other reason
Caption: to believe that this person is the right
Caption: person signing in uh and hooray for two
Caption: Factor
Caption: um but the user experience remains on
Caption: the poop scale of
Caption: poop
Caption: because it's still more friction like I
Caption: said we've watched me struggle to enter
Caption: a code several times just today and so
Caption: let's make it better we can actually
Caption: help these get Auto completed and auto
Caption: filled in again so I'm going back to the
Caption: HTML and go back to autocomplete because
Caption: on the input when you have a code if you
Caption: include autocomplete is one time code
Caption: then in Safari uh when your text message
Caption: comes through uh it comes up in that
Caption: little autocomplete bot on the um uh
Caption: keyboard auto complete on the keyboard
Caption: right and it's just this one little
Caption: attribute that allows that to happen and
Caption: it's wonderful and if you've not seen it
Caption: before it looks like this you go to log
Caption: in you get the message sent to you and
Caption: uh and as you enter just go to into the
Caption: code there it is Boom all right it's too
Caption: quick no friction
Caption: it's wonderful
Caption: um and and so you only need that one
Caption: little thing for it so there it is
Caption: coming up in the top of the keyboard
Caption: there
Caption: and you just hit that it enters with
Caption: through it's glorious
Caption: we can do some of the things to make
Caption: this nicer uh if you're a one-time code
Caption: input is a text input then you're going
Caption: to see the keyboard for text which is
Caption: not a good thing because it's normally
Caption: six digits that we're entering and so if
Caption: you actually add like input mode as
Caption: numeric uh it's going to make that a
Caption: better experience for people who can't
Caption: Auto Complete because that brings you up
Caption: your number keypad much nicer number
Caption: keypad uh so let's think about that and
Caption: then what about the desktop I mean this
Caption: is only Safari right now and that was
Caption: only iOS that that showed up there but
Caption: actually if you happen to be a big
Caption: Safari fan and have your desktop Safari
Caption: set up as well this actually works
Caption: across to the desktop
Caption: um and I'm gonna hold up look at that
Caption: um the when the message comes through to
Caption: your iPhone if you've got iMessage like
Caption: set up onto your device as well it's
Caption: going to do the autocomplete on your
Caption: desktop as long as you're in safari
Caption: right
Caption: so what's the other thing web OTP is our
Caption: is our final thing here uh this is the
Caption: sort of Chrome Android and pushing to a
Caption: um web standard solution for this uh and
Caption: it allows actually a bit more Security
Caption: in this like that autocomplete kind of
Caption: sort of works and but it really does
Caption: actually just see a text message see
Caption: like six digits in it and assume
Caption: everything else Works whereas web OTP is
Caption: a bit more strict than that
Caption: um it enforces that the message that you
Caption: send uh the two-factor authentication
Caption: code into have two bits at the end of it
Caption: uh an at symbol followed by the domain
Caption: name on which the person should be
Caption: logging in and then a hash symbol and
Caption: then the code now the at symbol in the
Caption: domain allows the browser and the
Caption: operating system to agree uh to
Caption: autocomplete on this site in this site
Caption: only which is a good phishing defense
Caption: right if you are being fished for your
Caption: two-factor authentication code uh
Caption: you're on a different domain and
Caption: therefore this will not offer the
Caption: autocomplete for it because it doesn't
Caption: match up so it's a security thing to
Caption: actually use this which is very nice
Caption: um so uh web OTP actually uses that very
Caption: same credential management API uh looks
Caption: a little like this like this and instead
Caption: of asking for the password in this case
Caption: we ask for the OTP transport of SMS I
Caption: really like this because
Caption: um that's an array which can have one
Caption: element in it which is the string SMS
Caption: which is which is cool
Caption: um got loads of options there to go in
Caption: that array
Caption: um so let's see that in action uh I'm
Caption: going to go to the demo and this time
Caption: bring up the phone I'm going to do this
Caption: on the phone this time uh
Caption: assuming we can get a browser there we
Caption: go so if I go back and refresh this
Caption: login page firstly what you'll notice is
Caption: uh that because I'm in logged in in both
Caption: my Google account uh my Chrome account
Caption: on both the desktop and the phone that
Caption: it's already synced my username and
Caption: password across so that is already still
Caption: a One Tap process to get through the
Caption: username and password section and now no
Caption: I didn't restart the server no
Caption: I need to you know HP try that again
Caption: because that wouldn't have had the code
Caption: um
Caption: [Music]
Caption: I'm gonna go back to login and start
Caption: again I don't know
Caption: back to login we get off at the login
Caption: this time it's going to send me the text
Caption: message and offer me to auto complete
Caption: that text message
Caption: so it's coming as the text and there's
Caption: the permissions dialog to say hey do you
Caption: want to read this and enter the code and
Caption: we allow it we get access to the code
Caption: and we're through our login has gone
Caption: from typing typing typing finding the
Caption: phone and getting in there to tap to yes
Caption: log me in and tap yes use that code I
Caption: think that's cool
Caption: um
Caption: but you might be asking
Caption: uh what about the desktop in this
Caption: particular case and um
Caption: uh the desktop actually works as well
Caption: it's very cool um I hope it works so it
Caption: can be a bit finicky but if you are in
Caption: Chrome uh in your Android device and
Caption: your browser and they all agree with
Caption: each other that you're the same person
Caption: then the mobile device will offer you up
Caption: to copy across the code that has arrived
Caption: from the text message into the browser
Caption: it tends to require the the devices to
Caption: be on the same network as well that has
Caption: failed for me in the past and I have not
Caption: yet managed to check because this is a
Caption: last minute talk I haven't managed to
Caption: check if this works on this network but
Caption: cross your fingers for me we're gonna go
Caption: and log in we're going to sign in with a
Caption: one tap and what we should see is the
Caption: text message coming over here on the
Caption: right hand side and then an offer to
Caption: copy that across
Caption: or
Caption: just crash the browser in the background
Caption: amazing
Caption: that was unexpected
Caption: um
Caption: let's let's
Caption: give it one more attempt at that uh I'm
Caption: gonna log in with that it doesn't need
Caption: the browser to be open this is just the
Caption: the
Caption: um the device doing it and so the
Caption: message should arrive and then it should
Caption: give you the option there we go submit
Caption: this code on the other computer if I
Caption: press submit there I'm hands off for the
Caption: other side we submit the code and it
Caption: enters it and logs me in
Caption: um so uh the the security there like you
Caption: have to be able you have to you know say
Caption: that that code is allowed to go from
Caption: this device to the computer and yeah if
Caption: you're not in the same network and
Caption: things like that it's not going to offer
Caption: that up
Caption: um but now our two-factor authentication
Caption: is just a
Caption: um
Caption: it's much less friction uh so it works
Caption: across the desktop as well at least if
Caption: you're in Chrome and Chrome uh just
Caption: talking a little bit about the future
Caption: like I I kind of
Caption: um laugh at the idea that we have this
Caption: uh single array uh that has one
Caption: potential element to it but I like this
Caption: because it's the way that Webb gets uh
Caption: designed and designed well it's it's
Caption: designed for extensibility and if we
Caption: come up with other transports and other
Caption: ways to get an OTP code from a device uh
Caption: we can add to this API and so I hope uh
Caption: that this is something that can be built
Caption: to to deal with authenticator apps or
Caption: indeed um other device based uh
Caption: Authentication
Caption: uh being able to web authen maybe from a
Caption: from a phone to a to a desktop anything
Caption: like that
Caption: um this is extensible and ready but in
Caption: general I think uh these little these
Caption: little changes these little tweaks
Caption: credential management API and the
Caption: autocomplete kind of things that we have
Caption: available to us allow us to uh enhance
Caption: and progressively enhance because it
Caption: doesn't work everywhere that
Caption: progressively enhance the experience for
Caption: login and uh and I'd recommend that you
Caption: take another look at your own login
Caption: flows and see if you can reduce the
Caption: friction for your users when they're
Caption: getting into the into your application
Caption: um that's uh that was a bit quick but
Caption: hopefully that was interesting my name
Caption: is I'm a developer Advantage at twilio
Caption: and I would love to talk and meet you
Caption: over at my stand sometime later thank
Caption: you
Caption: foreign thank you Phil um if anyone's
Caption: seen a lightning talk they're about half
Caption: as slow as Phil
Caption: um but for a last minute ring in and to
Caption: fit into that time slot is pretty
Caption: amazing so can we have one more round of
Caption: applause thank you thank you
Caption: we're about to kick off the next
Caption: sessions in this room we have the mother
Caption: of unicorns uh Ming Johansson if anyone
Caption: doesn't know Ming then stick around
Caption: you're in for a treat
Caption: um an amazing advocate for our local
Caption: Tech Community